Pathway
https://docs.google.com/document/d/1yU1g2I9nIjCj1lzTe0EmXmOigCz2udPGTwUw3H-8bNI/edit

BEST PRACTICES: VIDEO INTERVIEWS

The purpose of this document is to give students a set of best practices for video interviews.  Video/remote interviews are becoming more common and many of our students will experience some type of remote interview during the course of their job search after Tech Elevator.  

Dress to impress!  Even though you’re not onsite, they can still see you!  At a minimum wear a button-up and jacket or button-up and tie (for men) or a nice top with blazer (for ladies).  No hats, keep jewelry and makeup simple, and make sure your facial hair is groomed/trimmed.
Be aware of your surroundings! Take the interview in a QUIET space that is well lit.  Do not sit in front of a window (or you’ll look like a shadow).  Make sure children and pets will not interrupt.  
Tidy up! Check the area around you that is showing up on your video--is it clean? Is the lighting good? Would you want your future boss to see the area?  A messy area can be a distraction during an interview.
Check your connection!  If you know your internet connection is not good at home, take the interview at Tech Elevator or somewhere else where you know you will not have any issues. 
Test the conference call software! Especially if you’re using a software you’ve never used, make sure you have it setup at least 2 hours before your call (some software requires you to download something before using it).  Do a test call with a friend or family member using the software to make sure there are no issues.  
SMILE!! And continue to look straight ahead (eye contact); avoid letting your eyes wander.  Make sure you only have 1 tab open
Keep your phone in another room! It will just be a distraction and will give your eyes a reason to wander.
Stand-up or Sit down! This will help with your posture
Have a notebook! You can have your notes in front of you (just make sure you’re not reading off them or staring at them for too long) along with your resume.  Make sure you also have your list of questions to ask the interviewer.
BE READY 5 MINUTES EARLY! You should be in front of your computer, ready to take your interview 5-10 minutes before.  Don’t log on until your scheduled time, and make sure you’re not late.
Ask for next steps! Make sure this is a best practice for all interviews, not just remote interviews
Turn off all notifications - Ryver, Slack, and Email.
Have one window open. If possible, lay a hard copy of your resume in front of you.
