Pathway
https://docs.google.com/document/d/1SiVQCeRAbXJZ5d-5Ba0sAkNzd8WjtIG21Gm7jMuN-3k/edit?usp=sharing

Free Mental Health Resources
Both the career change and the intensive classroom experience can take a toll on stress levels, mental health, and wellbeing. Take advantage of some of these free or affordable online resources & be proactive about your mental health.
Interested in local resources? Check out our local Mental Health Resources handouts, provided by the National Alliance on Mental Health’s local NAMI office.
Mental Health Apps (iOS and Android)
Breathe2Relax
This app provides detailed information on the effects of stress on the body as well as instructions and practice exercises to help users learn the stress management skill called diaphragmatic breathing, a stress management skill linked to mood stabilization, anger control, and anxiety management.
MindShift 
This straightforward stress management tool helps users rethink what’s stressing them out through a variety of on-screen prompts. At the same time, the app encourages new ways to take charge of anxiety and tune into body signals.
Calm  
Calm focuses on the four key areas of meditation, breaking, sleep, and relaxation, with the aim of bringing joy, clarity, and peace to your daily life. The app delivers meditations that can help you to destress, as well as breathing programs, music, and sounds from nature to relax your mind and body and promote better sleep.
Headspace   
The app has hundreds of themed mindfulness and meditation sessions to support reducing daily stress and improving focus and attention. It’s suggested to enhance compassionate behavior toward others in just 3 weeks.
Moodpath   
Moodpath provides more than 150 videos and psychological exercises, as well as asks daily questions in order to assess your well-being and screen for symptoms of depressions. After a period of 2 weeks, the app generates an electronic document that you can discuss with a healthcare professional.
Pacifica   
The app help you to break cycles of unhelpful thoughts, feelings, and behaviors through methods such as CBT, mindfulness meditation, mood tracking, and relaxation. It sets daily challenges to help you tackles anxiety and depression, as well as provides a highly supportive community of like-minded individuals.
7 Cups  
7 Cups provides online therapy with more than 160,000 trained listeners and licensed therapists available to anonymously speak with you 24/7. These listeners and therapists can be searched for based on specialties such as bullying, panic attacks, eating disorders, relationships breakups, and many more.
Happify   
86% of this app’s users reported feeling better about their lives just 2 months after using it. Happify employs techniques and evidence-based interventions in the areas of CBT, positive psychology, and mindfulness. Your emotional wellbeing is calculated as a happiness score through different activities and games.
Talkspace  
A counseling and therapy app, Talkspace provides a free consultation with a Matching Agent to identify the ideal therapist for your needs based on several factors. More than 1,000 licensed therapists are available of varying specialties, ad access is given, after upgrading, to a secure chat room where you voice concerns.
Online Resources & Support
Psychology Today
Offers a national directory of therapists, psychiatrists, therapy groups and treatment facility options.
PsychCentral
The largest and oldest independent mental health online resources. It comprehensively breaks down every mental health condition as well as offers scientific tests for many disorders to determine if you need to see a mental health professional for diagnosis and treatment.
Substance Abuse and Mental Health Services Administration SAMHSA   
Provides a Treatment Location with referrals to low-cost/sliding scale mental health care, substance abuse and dual diagnosis treatment. 
Phone: (800) 662-4357
The American Foundation for Suicide Prevention   
Provides referrals to support groups, mental health professionals, resources on loss and suicide prevention information. Phone: (888) 333-2377
National Institute of Mental Health NIMH   
Provides information on statistics, clinical trials and research. NAMI references NIMH statistics for their website and all their publications. 
Phone: (866) 615-6464
Hotlines
The National Domestic Violence Hotline   
Provides 24/7 crisis intervention, safety planning and information on domestic violence. 
Phone: (800) 799-7233
The Suicide Prevention Lifeline   
Connects callers to trained crisis counselors 24/7. They also provide a chat function on their website. 
Phone: (800) 273-8255
Drug & Alcohol Treatment Hotline  
Dedicated to prevention of drug abuse and treatment of existing drug & alcohol problems. Round the clock help in finding local treatment centers. 
Phone: (800) 662-4357
Sexual Assault Hotline  
Connects callers with a trained staff member from a sexual assault service provider in your area. 
Phone: (800) 656-4673
