Pathway
https://docs.google.com/document/d/16HVm9CkgNnPkwmG0tR5jtBcjSNhz64VR2Dzm_TqJ3Co/edit?usp=sharing

Message from Sr Female Developer to Jr Female Developers
From: Senior Female Developer 
To: Junior Female Developers


Hi ladies, 

I'm glad you've decided to pursue a career as a developer. It really challenges you in ways that can be truly satisfying that I didn't find in various other work that I've done in my life. As a career it is very rewarding, but it does have it's unique challenges as a woman. 

As you've noticed among your class, we as women represent less than 1/4 of developers out there in the working world. I'm not going to sugar coat it - it is definitely a male dominated industry that I've navigated in my 18 years of professional life. I've had my fair share of haters & doubters throughout my career. I'm sure more than any other profession I would have chosen (other than possibly trading futures on the American Exchange floor). Apparently, I'm a glutton for punishment, haha. 

Despite all that, I believe us women bring something that men do not at the table. We bring compassion and empathy to the customer/user and we naturally build relationships. We also think creativity in relation to problem solving than men do. As I mentioned on the Panel Discussion, my husband is a developer & we met while he was a vendor working on the Nationwide Children's hospital site with me. There were countless times that I came up with a creative solution that benefitted my internal client (marketing) that we implemented together. That was because I built that relationship with marketing and they trusted me. I was also able to convey the solution clearly to my husband for us to implement. Many of the solutions I came up with wasn't even on his radar of solution sets.

You will encounter people (men and women) in the industry that will underestimate & discount you. I could do a whole talk on that subject alone - LOL. But the important thing is that you make your voice heard and don't be afraid to speak up. Also, if you're in a group with other women developers' - amplify each other's opinions/suggestions. You *will* gain a lot of domain knowledge out there.  Be confident in yourself and your knowledge. Once people see that you know your shit, they will listen to you. This industry is probably the most egalitarian industry I've seen. It is hard to break into & gain "street cred" but when you do, you will have contacts that last your whole career. 

Best of luck in your classes & your future endeavors.

