Book
https://book.techelevator.com/content/introduction-to-SQL.html#select-statements

Select Statements
First, you'll learn how to select data from a database. This is one of the main types of statements you'll use when developing web applications.

For these examples, assume that you have a database table that looks like this:


Image - Our cities table
In this database, the table would have a name. Here, it's called the countries table. If you want to get the names of all the countries in the countries table, you could run the following statement:

SELECT name FROM countries;
Result:

name
Cayman Islands
Chile
Cook Islands
Costa Rica
Djibouti
Dominica
Dominican Republic
Ecuador
...
This is a SELECT statement. All SELECT statements start with the keyword SELECT followed by the name of the column from which data is retrieved. After that is the FROM keyword, which specifies the table you want the data from. This tells the database to give you the name of every row in the countries table. These are called the SELECT clause and the FROM clause of the the SELECT statement.

Clause Order

You'd think that you'd need to specify the table before specifying which columns to select. But SQL is a declarative language and the pieces of the statement aren't written in the order that they run, but in an order that reads more like English. Be sure to remember what order the clauses need to be run in.

You can select more than one column from the table by separating each column name with a comma, as shown below:

SELECT name, continent FROM countries;
Result:

name	continent
Cayman Islands	North America
Chile	South America
Cook Islands	Oceania
Costa Rica	North America
Djibouti	Africa
Dominica	North America
Dominican Republic	North America
Ecuador	South America
...	...
There is also a shortcut for selecting all the columns of a table. That shortcut is to use the * symbol, which means all:

SELECT * FROM countries;
Result:

code	name	continent	region
CYM	Cayman Islands	North America	Caribbean
CHL	Chile	South America	South America
COK	Cook Islands	Oceania	Polynesia
CRI	Costa Rica	North America	Central America
DJI	Djibouti	Africa	Eastern Africa
DMA	Dominica	North America	Caribbean
DOM	Dominican Republic	North America	Caribbean
ECU	Ecuador	South America	South America
...	...	...	...
These two clauses allow you to specify the data you want to select from the database. The FROM clause lets you specify what table you want to select from; the SELECT clause lets you specify what columns you want to select from that table.
