Book
https://book.techelevator.com/content/introduction-to-SQL.html#sql-data-types

SQL Data Types
One of the ways that a RDBMS protects the consistency of your data is by specifying that data going into tables must match certain data types. In fact, each column defined on a table must have a data type in SQL databases. This data type verifies data going into tables and lets programmers know what kind of data comes out when retrieving data. Most data types are either string or number data types, but there can also be types for booleans, dates, and even very specific types, like IP addresses or geographic points and shapes.

The most common data types are listed below:

Data type	Description
CHARACTER(n)	Character string. Fixed-length n
VARCHAR(n) or	
CHARACTER VARYING(n)	Character string. Variable length. Maximum length n
BOOLEAN	Stores TRUE or FALSE values
SMALLINT	Integer numerical (no decimal). Precision 5
INTEGER	Integer numerical (no decimal). Precision 10
BIGINT	Integer numerical (no decimal). Precision 19
DECIMAL(p,s)	Exact numerical, precision p, scale s. Example: decimal(5,2) is a number that has 3 digits before the decimal and 2 digits after the decimal
NUMERIC(p,s)	Exact numerical, precision p, scale s. (Same as DECIMAL)
DATE	Stores year, month, and day values
TIME	Stores hour, minute, and second values
TIMESTAMP	Stores year, month, day, hour, minute, and second values
Proprietary Data Types

Many SQL databases also have specific data types that are only in their proprietary databases. For example, PostgreSQL has a type called SERIAL that is an auto-incrementing integer used for unique values in a table. That data type doesn't exist in MySQL or MS SQL.

These SQL data types allow you to be strict about what data goes into your tables. For example, it prevents a user's age from being set to "Frank" and breaking your application.

For SQL literals, all character type data, both strings and individual characters, are denoted with single quotes ('). So 'Frank' is a valid string that could be put in a VARCHAR defined column. Numbers are just plain numbers, so 3.14 is a valid DECIMAL value.
