Pathway
https://docs.google.com/document/d/1FOI7cM88J01UfdgSghaNLYh2-DjIskUYoaYG_XbqDSo/edit

Describe a time when you cooperated with someone outside of your team/department/group in an activity that turned out to benefit both teams/departments/groups.

Describe a situation in which you made an effort to repair an important relationship.  What made this relationship important to you and the business?

We’ve all had to make a decision with limited information.  Tell me about a time this happened to you.

At one time we all have thought we handled a problem successfully only to find we had only affected a symptom of a larger problem.  Can you give me an example of when this happened to you?

Give me an example of a time when you were able to apply existing technology or knowledge in a new way to solve a problem.

Can you give me a recent example of when you suggested a teammate try a different way to solve a problem, but it didn't work as well as the original approach?

Tell me about the ways in which you have worked with group members to develop new and innovative ideas to solve business problems.  GIve me a recent example.

Tell me about a recent time when you thought, “There’s got to be a better way.” and then you found one.

Describe a time when you had difficulty convincing a work team to implement changes.  How did you address their issues?

Describe your biggest disappointment at work.  Why was this so disappointing for you?

Tell me about a time when you were particularly satisfied with your work situation.  Why was this situation so gratifying.

Give me an example of a time when you worked with a group/team to determine project responsibilities.  What difficulties or issues came up?

Think of someone from another department with whom you’ve worked with who would say you’re a good partner.  Why would that person say that? Provide examples.

Describe the steps you took to identify or understand a complicated problem you have had to deal with on your job.

Tell me about a time you made a mistake at work; what did you do and how did you handle the situation?

Describe a time when you weighed the pros and cons of a situation and decided not to take action, even though you were under pressure to do so.

Describe a time at work when you helped a coworker learn to use a new technology tool.

Can you think of a time when you recommended a solution that was or wasn’t accepted by the customer or internal group? What was the reason?

Tell me about one of the most difficult meetings you’ve had where you needed to gain someone’s agreement or commitment to an idea or plan.

Give me an example of a time when you were able to get someone from outside your workgroup to cooperate with you on an important initiative or project.

Describe a situation in which you had to use a different approach because your initial approach failed to persuade others.

Tell me about a time you failed.  How did you handle this situation?

