Pathway
https://docs.google.com/document/d/1bUL7gNLdNvcEIXRcDd_OOdb37auS2m6TDAJoEDKIkao/edit?usp=sharing

StrengthsFinder: Points to Consider
What exactly can you do with your StrengthsFinder results? 

How to use top strengths to be successful in your coding bootcamp
Write down your top 5 strengths in a visible space (notebook, digital post-it, bookmarked page, etc). Make sure to reference them often so they’re fresh in your head. 
Learn what each strength means for you. Use your Strengths Finder dashboard as reference material, or any resource on the web. 
Review the strength results for your class. Who is lacking what you have, and who has what you lack? Working with people who compliment your strengths may be helpful in understanding specific assignments. 
How to leverage your strengths in your new career
Use strength-based language to help sell yourself when interviewing 
Determine if the culture and environment of company you’re interviewing at fits:
Interview the interviewer - ask strength-based questions
e.g. How much do you value innovative ideas about moving forward? {strategic thinking}
e.g. How many times/week  to you deploy code? {execution}
Once you land the job, approach work from a strengths perspective:
Understand how you work, how you think, how you best work with others
What your top strengths CANNOT do
Your top strengths will not determine exactly which career path is right for you. Instead, it’s about understanding who you are as you begin to make career path decisions. 

Reflection questions

As a result of the StrengthsFinder report, what new insights do you have about yourself?

Which theme among your top five most resonates with you and why?

As you look at your top five themes, do you have memories of the talents in these themes in action from way back when?

For which of your top five themes do you want to be known? What one or two themes define who you are and how you work day after day?

How do your talents in these themes add value to the team you work with every day? How do they help you succeed in the tasks you are assigned to accomplish?

Sometimes a person’s greatest talents get in the way. Do any of your themes sometimes adversely affect either the work you do or the relationships you need to develop? If so, how?

What do you appreciate about yourself in a new or fresh way as a result of this discussion?



