Pathway
https://docs.google.com/document/d/1Qy-1P8JE5m_8G-zUqFq3KdXr3stGV1gcTFO-rfiUROo/edit?usp=sharing

TAKING A PROFESSIONAL HEADSHOT AT HOME
What having a great profile picture means for you
Did you know that including a photo on LinkedIn will give you 21 times MORE views and 36 times MORE messages?! To increase your response and referral rates, invest in your profile picture. It’s your first chance to communicate that you are friendly, likable, and trustworthy — attributes that are crucial to getting recruiters to engage with you. 
Think of it as your first step to building your personal brand on LinkedIn and making yourself stand out from other candidates. Now that’s worth investing in.

Background
Where you take your picture matters. You don’t want anything to distract from your face, so a simple background can help ensure that you’re the focal point.  This doesn’t necessarily mean you should be taking a photo in front of a plain white wall - that’s actually not a great idea.  Check out the tips below for finding a background that works for you:
Outdoors
Fence
Shrubs/tree
Brick wall
Side of a house or building
Indoors
Painted wall
Avoid taking in front of a window (you’ll be backlit)
Interior brick wall
If you want to showcase cool details of where you work, use that for your Header image at the top of your LI profile
For LinkedIn, your face should take up about 60% of the space and you should be the only person in the shot.  





Lighting
Make sure you have a solid plan for your camera and lighting.  Natural light always works best, but if the weather conditions aren’t great, then make sure you’re referencing the tips below.
Interior setting
Use existing options for backgrounds and lighting within the space
Do you have enough natural light in the room? Do you need some artificial lighting?
Make sure you don’t stand with a window behind (you’ll be backlit)
BUT facing a window will give you some great natural light
Outdoor setting
Consider the time of day and the direction of the sun in relation to how and where you want to pose
Early morning and late afternoon are the best times for a natural-light portrait
Avoid shooting at midday when sunlight and shadows are harshest
Overcast weather can also provide a good opportunity for a portrait with softer shadows and lighting that remains consistent over a longer period of time
Ideally, you should be facing the sun, or at an oblique angle with your face lit to define features, while minimizing shadows. 
Check your composition for issues such as a distracting background. 

Clothing
Every workplace has a different vibe when it comes to the dress code. You don’t want to be over or underdressed in your headshot. If you wear jeans and a button-down most days, it’s okay to wear that outfit in your pic — likewise if you wear a suit.  When in doubt - you can’t go wrong with business casual!
Solid colors tend to do best on camera
Avoid crazy patterns/designs
Choose your outfit using bold tones to help make your pic stand out.  
Make sure your outfit doesn’t blend into the background you’re using (for example, if you’re standing in front of a red brick wall, wear a brighter color, like blue or green that will stand out against it).  
Make sure your outfit is wrinkle and stain free!
 
 
Posing
Chances are that you will be doing a variety of facial expressions on the day of the shoot. You want to rehearse a variety of smiles: a big smile, three-quarter smile, half-smile, closed-mouth smile. Perhaps this sounds a bit tedious, but upon practicing in the mirror or using your phone camera, you will see what types of smiles look most natural for you.  Regardless of which smile you choose, make sure you do SMILE!!
Make sure you’re relaxed in your body posture. 
Perhaps do some light stretching or yoga in the morning to get prepared. 
Make sure that your shoulders are relaxed and that you are breathing from your diaphragm to avoid any stiffness
Try some of these poses:
Cross your arms and angle yourself towards the camera (make sure you’re not facing the camera straight-on)
The slight turn of their body fixes the rigidness of their square shoulders and crossed arms and makes the pose appear more casual and approachable
Hands in pockets
For women, this gives a very casual feel. 
The main pitfall to watch for on this pose is that the shoulders don’t go up towards the ears too much - keep them relaxed
Hands on Hips
Arms at side
Hand clasped in front of you
Shoulders should remain relaxed, posture remain upright
Be sure to check the chin position
Often, the chin will go up too high, so lower your chin slightly down, while also moving your face straight forward a bit


