Pathway
https://docs.google.com/document/d/12r49KeOgrTjcj3oRcLyBukNieZOUnaD3qOaZoux-7h8/edit

Virtual Matchmaking Best Practices & Reminders 

LOGISTICS
Make sure you are fully aware of your schedule!
It will be KEY to stay on time for interviews
For Zoom interviews: log on 5 minutes before, make sure you are muted, and wait to be placed in your breakout room
For other conference call software: Make sure you’re logging on your scheduled time (don’t log on early)
Pro tip: set an alarm on your phone for your interview slots throughout the day so that you don’t lose track of time!
Interviews begin at 11:45am, and will run through 4:30pm
Interviews are 25 min - not every company will use the full amount of time
5 min buffer in between interviews 
Everyone will have a 20 minute break at 1:40
THIS WEEKEND: Download any conference call software that you will be using for Matchmaking (Your Pathway Director will share all links for your interviews by EOD Friday, so you will know which software you need to download)
Make sure you review the Best Practice Guide for Video Interviews
Have a glass of water next to you.

USING ZOOM
Most companies will be using Zoom through Tech Elevator
Sign into Zoom 5 minutes before your scheduled interview so we can assign breakout rooms
Your Pathway or Campus Director will be placing interviewers with students in breakout rooms for every session
Make sure you’re muted when you’re in the main session
Make sure your video is ON for your interview
Student room: If you’re not interviewing, we’ll place you in the “student room” with your classmates
If there are any issues with Zoom, we will have the interviewers call you on your cell phone to do a phone interview instead 

REMINDERS
Professional dress (tucked in shirt, suit, combed hair) - this is your 1st impression
NO jeans, tennis shoes, hats, or t-shirts
Guys--wear long dress socks with dress pants (not short socks)
Ladies--make sure your hair is out of your face
Guys--Shave/groom your facial hair!
Just because these are remote--you still need to dress to impress (plus if you look good, you feel good :))
Be aware of your surroundings:
Make sure your lighting is good
Zero distractions
Quiet space
Clean your space up before the interview--look at your video to see what the interviewer sees and make sure the area is free of clutter and lighting is good
Close out all tabs and notifications on your computer
Leave your phone in a different room (and on silent)--you won’t need it for the interview and it will be a distraction if it’s next to you
You’re being judged from the minute you log on
Don’t forget to smile!
Eye contact--keep your eyes on the screen
Even though you’re remote, you should still have a resume and notepad/pen in front of you
Companies already have a copy of your resume
Have questions prepared in advance - always ask a question.
Do your research on the company! What can you find on their website, on their social media? What’s important to them? Any recent press releases? How can you craft questions based on what you see them doing or the messaging they give off? 
Be able to answer ‘so, what do you know about [XX company]’

HOW TO CLOSE YOUR CONVERSATIONS
“Is there anything on my resume or in my background that you are hesitant about that I could address?” Concerns on my resume? 
“I’m very interested in {company name} and would love to continue our conversation. Do you have a business card available?” (does not apply for remote)
“I’m very interested in this position at {company name}, what are the next steps?” 

WHAT HAPPENS IF IT GETS TECHNICAL
A reminder that you won’t know everything 
If they ask you about something you haven’t heard of, awesome! Ask them about it and what they use it for; interest implies motivation.
It’s okay to say ‘I don’t know’, but make sure to tell them what you DO know
Give them specific examples of technologies you’ve used when you can - use capstones as a reference when you can

FOLLOW UPS
Send a follow-up email/Thank you to all interviewers within 24 hours
Emails will be available on the Contact Info tab of the Schedule
LinkedIn request if applicable 
Apply if they asked you to do so; take action if they asked you to do something 

YOUR NERVES
Look how far you’ve come! Be confident in your skills and your abilities. 
Get excited to meet with these really great companies. 
The more prepared you are, the less nervous you’ll be. 
The more prepared you are, the more memorable you’ll be while interviewing.
Have something to focus on day-of - take time for you; go for a run, listen to your favorite song, etc. to get your mindset in the right place in the morning.
Breathe and have fun! 
Good luck!
