Book
https://book.techelevator.com/content/web-services-http.html#web-apis'

Web APIs
So far you've learned about URLs, how HTTP communication works, and that you can use HTTP for more than just web pages. But how does that work?

An application programming interface (API) is an interface that allows transfer of data between different computer programs. A Web API is simply an API that's accessible on the internet.

In today's information age, sharing information is vital. You might not realize it, but everything you use in your day-to-day life, like your phone, shares information with some other system.

This sharing is done through Web APIs. Some APIs are "public", which means that they're available for use by other developers. Others are "private", meaning that they're intended only for that product to use. You'll see examples of both in this section.

#APIs and banking applications
Most mobile banking applications provide the ability to check account balances, transfer funds, and even deposit checks. Here's what Fifth-Third Bank's mobile application looks like:


Image - Mobile Banking Application
Now, think about the data that lives inside of a banking application:

Balances of your account
Checking
Savings
Business
Credit Cards
Detailed list of transactions for each account
Statements (Reports)
Loan Information
Mortgage
Automobile
Personal
Do you think all of this personal banking information is stored on your device? The answer is no. For one, storing that information on your device is a major security risk.

Secondly, you know that you can see this information if you visit your bank account's website on your computer. If this data was only available on your device, it'd have to be replicated on the web. Instead, the bank created an API that both the mobile and web applications use to retrieve the data.

#Amazon
You probably already know that Amazon sells millions of products. The Amazon app for your phone only takes about 20 seconds to install and is around 100 MB. So, Amazon can't have all the products they sell in the app.

A quick search for "vuejs" in the mobile app yields several results:


Image - Amazon Mobile App
When you install the Amazon app, you aren't downloading their entire product library. When you search for a product, get product details, or look at your account history, these are all Web API calls to Amazon. This allows the mobile app and their website to use the same service.

#ExchangeRate-API
So far you've seen private APIs, or those created by a company only intended for their product to use. But what about public APIs?

Say you're building an application that needs to provide exchange rates. There's a free public API for that called the ExchangeRate-API. Given a three-letter currency code, such as USD for US Dollars or EUR for Euro, the service returns the current exchange rates to other currencies:

{
  "base": "USD",
  "date": "2020-02-20",
  "time_last_updated": 1582157102,
  "rates": {
    "USD": 1,
    "AED": 3.672012,
    "ARS": 61.679567,
    "AUD": 1.494929,
    "BGN": 1.810794,
    "BRL": 4.364061,
    //the rest omitted for brevity
  }
}
#Data exchange format - JSON
The data above is in a specific format called JavaScript Object Notion (JSON). JSON is a text format that's completely language independent but uses conventions that are familiar to programmers. It's considered a lightweight data-interchange format that's easy for humans to read and easy for computers to understand.

The structure is an object-like code block containing a set of key : value pairs. It appears to be an object, or hash, or dictionary depending upon the programming language you use. A list of values can also be represented using familiar array notation with [ "value one", "value two", "etc" ].

#JSON rules
The key, which is to the left of the : is double quoted. The value, which is to the right of :, is also double quoted, unless the value is null, true, false, or a number. The value may include list values.

If you look at the "rates" key, you'll see the value is a code block. JSON structures can be as deeply nested as required.

This guide uses JSON as it's the most common format APIs use, and it's easier to read. Despite the name, JSON doesn't rely on or work only in JavaScript; it works in many programming languages
