Pathway
https://docs.google.com/document/d/1hCBT4_gQCz0Xgzt7-633jHQdw0nzyRn709ehF0iq4X0/edit

Communication Best Practices

Whether you’re gearing up for our bootcamp, working hard in the cohort, or after you move onto your first job, you’ll need to know how to communicate. This guide is by no means comprehensive, but it’ll give you some of the tips and tricks you’ll need to be effective when you communicate via email and Ryver.

Email 

Email. We all have one. Most of the time it’s a place to house social media notifications or far too many coupons. However, in the professional sphere, especially in enterprise, email dominates corporate communications, and it’s something you’ll need to know your way around to get the most out of your career. 

Now, most of us have sent an email at some point in our lives. You’ve likely corresponded with your Admissions Coordinator via email in order to be here at Tech Elevator, however, thinking back to your emails, were they clean? Free from any punctuation or grammatical errors? Were they professionally toned? Did you respond in a timely manner? 

If you are unsure about any of these things, this guide is for you. 

Let’s talk about grammar and best practices. Google does a pretty good job at scanning your email for mistakes, but it’s important to remember that email doesn’t necessarily ever go away. It’s formal, and making a first impression that is professional is important. Here are some tips and tricks for grammar and tone to help you be your most professional self on an email: 

Spell out your words. This isn’t the time for common abbreviations and phrases like “lol” “brt”. Also, please use proper spelling for words like “you”, “what”, etc. 
Use Punctuation! Periods, Exclamation Points, Commas, Question Marks, and everything else in between. Not only does it look professional, but you want your reader to know exactly what you mean when you send a message. 
Keep an eye on your tone. Very often, sentences say the same thing in different ways, and you want your tone to paint the best possible picture of yourself. When in doubt, read your email out loud, or have a friend read it to make sure you sound professional, and/or when appropriate, excited or serious. 
What does your email address look like? While “sabrinacatdad2015@gmail.com” might make a lot of sense to you, it doesn’t necessarily paint the most professional image of yourself. You should use some variation of your first and last name and/or your initials. You should also be using an email from gmail, outlook or icloud. Example email addresses: Vsmith@gmail.com, Vinnysmith@outlook.com, vinnys20@gmail.com 
Sign your email, professionally. Email is still a professional letter, and it’s how most organizations communicate. Assess your own voice and brand on how you sign your letter, but here’s an example:
	
Best, 

Name
Title
Phone Number
Email
Linkedin Profile URL 

Respond in a TIMELY manner. I recommend checking your email often during business hours (but not during lecture), and if it’s from a recruiter or hiring manager, a prompt response is the best response. You should always respond within 24 hours.
Also, RESPOND! If someone, especially a recruiter or hiring manager, sends you an email asking a question, don’t just leave it on read. Answer their questions in the email. I know it’s an extra step, but practicing these skills will prepare you for your future career. 


Ryver/Slack

Ryver and Slack are both informal communication platforms organizations used for speedy and quick notifications. However, in a space that’s so informal, it can be difficult to determine what’s great to send and what’s better kept to yourself. In a work setting, employers will still see what you say, as will your Instructors and Pathway Directors while you’re here, so keep that in mind. Here are some tips and tricks to make the most out of your instant messaging: 

First and foremost, be timely. Instant messages are just that, instant. With how quickly information and some organizations move, if you aren’t in the know, you can fall incredibly behind. So check your messages, and make sure you answer them, when appropriate. If I have an extra minute or two between meetings, you can bet slack and ryver messages are my first priority. 
Consider your tone. Unlike email which has numerous technologies to check your grammar and tone, you are largely responsible for your own tone on these kinds of communications. However, emojis on these are perfectly acceptable, and can helpfully demark the vibe you’re trying to give. Just make sure you use the appropriate emoji :D 
With emojis being said, there can DEFINITELY be too much of a good thing. Make sure you use these sparingly for maximum effect. 
Respect. If you message someone with a question, and they answer you, please respond. I know if I message someone something outside of business hours and they respond, I’ll thank them for taking the time to answer my question. If I’m going to be late or can’t answer their question right away, I’ll let them know a better time to chat, and be there at that time. If I found an answer outside of them, I’ll let them know the problem was resolved, and no need to worry about it any longer. Bottom line: if you message someone and they respond, be respectful of that person and their time by being communicative. 

