Pathway
https://docs.google.com/document/d/1frpmVmhqG1TH52tm8WFL31zO-0tRl9QLj-DIvJbGtwE/edit?usp=sharing

Offer Rejection Email Templates
Dear xxxx:
Thank you for offering me the xxx position with COMPANY NAME. Regretfully, I must decline your offer as I have just accepted a position with another organization. While I was very interested in the opportunity and working with your team, the position I’ve accepted is slightly more in line with my current career aspirations.
Thanks again for taking the time to meet with me and for the generous employment offer. I am impressed by your company’s goals, mission and commitment to quality and service, and wish you and your colleagues much continued success. I hope to keep in touch about future opportunities. 
Best regards,
xxx

Dear XXX:
Thank you for offering me the Software Development position within your company. COMPANY NAME is exactly the type of organization I seek to work within to start my career. Your New Employee Transition program that pairs new workers with seasoned ones for mentoring and guidance is both attractive and impressive.
However, shortly after my interview with you, I received an offer for a similar position in Wisconsin, which removes the need for me to relocate. After much thought and careful consideration, I have decided to accept the position in Wisconsin.
Thank you again for the interview and the offer to work for your company. Under other circumstances, I think it would be the perfect fit. It was a pleasure meeting you and learning about COMPANY NAME.
Sincerely,
XXX


Dear XXX,
Thank you very much for offering me the XXX position. After careful consideration, I regret that I must decline your offer. Although you were most encouraging in outlining future advancement possibilities within COMPANY NAME, I have accepted another opportunity that is more in line with my skills and career goals.
I enjoyed meeting you and the rest of your team. You have been most kind and gracious throughout the interview process, and I only wish that circumstances allowed me to accept your offer. Best wishes for your continued success!
Sincerely yours,
xxxx
Dear xxxx,
Thank you for offering me the XXX position. Regretfully, I must decline your offer. While I was very interested in the opportunity and working with your team, I do not feel it is the best fit for me at this time.
Thanks again for taking the time to meet with me and for the generous employment offer. I am impressed by your company's goals, mission and commitment to quality and service, and wish you and your colleagues much continued success. I hope that we meet again in the future.
Best regards,
XXX

Additional Resources: 

https://www.totaljobs.com/insidejob/how-to-decline-a-job-offer/

https://www.themuse.com/advice/how-to-gracefully-turn-down-a-job-offer

https://www.monster.com/career-advice/article/sample-letter-declining-job-offer
