Pathway
https://docs.google.com/document/d/1iKKmaIAwcxXxx0F38h4k9YYTcoHA0cKaJ5RVJtugfvc/edit

Phone Interview Tips

Why do some employers ask for phone interviews in the first place?
Employers use phone interviews as a way of identifying and recruiting candidates and can be used as an initial screening technique to narrow the pool of candidates who will be invited for an in-person interview.
What is YOUR objective of the phone interview?
To give a good first impression and be invited for an in-person interview
Fun fact:  84% of the message over the phone is your tone of voice.  
(http://customersthatstick.com/blog/customer-service-training/smiling-on-the-phone-does-it-really-work/)


TIPS
Pre-Interview
Take the phone interview as seriously as an in-person interview. 
Practice power posing in the mirror - to build your confidence. (Yes, this works!)
Cut out all distractions - FOCUS. 
Prepare for all scheduled calls.  If you get a call out of the blue, let it go to voicemail, or let the interviewer know that you’re unable to speak freely and ask for a scheduled call.
Have a copy of your resume in front of you. 
Do company research before the interview. Mother Google is your friend. 
Have questions available ahead of time.  Asking thoughtful questions shows that you’re a great candidate who cares.
Sit somewhere… do not lay down or relax on the couch.  A kitchen table or desk work best (unless you’re a pacer). 
Be ready for common phone interview questions.
Keep a paper and pen handy so that you can take notes about what the interviewer is saying. 
Be prepared for an earlier or later start time.  
Take the call at home.  Not in your car.  Not in a place where you can’t control the environment.
 Have a copy of the job description/company information in front of you.  
 Write the interviewer’s name down. Ask for their email address if you don’t have it.
 Have Internet access. You never know if you need to look up something quickly.

During the Interview
Talk and answer questions, but let the interviewer guide the conversation. 
Answer the phone with your preferred name. “Hi, this is so-and-so.”
 SMILE!  They can hear it.
Use the interviewer’s name in conversation a few times. (In general, people like the sound of their own names.)
Ask about “a day in the life” of the role.  This conveys interest.
Disable Words With Friends, alarms or other phone features.
Express excitement about the opportunity. 
Slooooooow doooooown.  Use the power of the pause between their question and your answer. You’re a thinker. It’s okay to take a few seconds to think.
Be thoughtful, thorough and concise. 
Give yourself enough time to talk. No lunch hour interviews.  
No pets (or children!) allowed in the room.  
If an unexpected event comes up, use the mute button. 
Be honest.  If this will be your future employer, you don’t want to start with a lie.
Try not to talk about money. Read this:  Negotiating Your Salary: How to Make $1000 a Minute (Thanks Jim V. for the question and Rebecca for the answer!)
Convince the interviewer that an in-person meeting is in order.
Send a thank you note (email is fine) within 24 hours.

      Good luck! 
 
